README.md, before:

# Milestone 5 Project

## [Custom Drone Systems](https://ddeveloper72-custom-drone.herokuapp.com/)
*for customizing your drone's navigation systems*

![Index](https://github.com/ddeveloper72/milestone-5-project/blob/master/static/readme/landing_page.png "Django Landing Page")

## 1. Project Goals

Custom Drone deBug is a fictitious organization that specialize in developing high-tech drone navigation systems.  The navigation systems of our imaginary drones can be programmed and customized to suit our customer's needs.  The drones are used for a variety different industry purposes, such as search and rescue and inspection.  

Customers of Custom Drone, use standard PC based systems to network to their drones by different means.  They are able to communicate by Satellite, 4G, and low frequency radio.  The various Drone models may be tasked to work in a variety of different environments, such as above ground, below ground in cave/tunnel systems and in aquatic environments.  Custom Drone navigation systems facilitate swarm management, establishing satellite peer to per communication in difficult communications environments.

This service provides a facility were customers can report a problem with a drone navigation system.  Problems or bugs can be logged through the Custom Drone deBug portal.  Bugs that have been found in the software will be fixed free of charge and rolled out to all users of that make and model of the affected products as an opt-in upgrade.

Our drone navigation systems are also customizable.  If a new feature is suggested by a customer, the feature can be logged as a New Feature Request.  Our product development team will do their best to build this new feature into the next product model, so making it available to everyone buying that model.  

If however the new feature is required immediately, our development team will be very happy to focus on developing the New Product Feature.  New product upgrades are considered to be on demand will be charged  development fee dependant on the amount of time required to process the upgrade.  The development fee covers a Coding Feasibility Assessment, Coding Development, System Testing and Simulation, Quality Assessment and finally Product dispatch.

Customers will be able to upvote a bug report made by another customer, should they have the same issue. If there are many upvotes for a particular bug, the product development team will use this statistical data to do as a risk assessment and reassign development time to resolving the bug.

The statistical information will be collected and presented to the customers to show the time line spent on bug resolution and update roll-out.

## 2. The UX Design
*(This template is with thanks from 
@sarahloh)*

#### Strategy

| Focus                                                       | User Needs                                                            | Business Objectives                             |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| What are you aiming to achieve?                             | To be provided with a facility for reporting a bug/issue, prolonging their use of the product.  | To gather user feedback for continues product improvement. To engage with the customer that will maintain and grow our customer base.|
|                                                             | To be able to see if other users have the same issues.  | Gather statistics from likes from user feedback for product development and marketing. |
|                                                             | To be be part of a community and help improve the product development. | To provide customers with a facility to input their feedback on our products. |
| For whom?                                                   | Organizations that use our "SMART" drone navigation system.  |  |
| TARGET AUDIENCE                                             | Drone Tech Pilots  | To learn and understand the technical needs of the customer, by providing a facility where customers can write feedback in a familiar blog style interface |
|                                                             | Company purchasing authority |  |
|                                                             | Customer development authority | Collaborate on needs so we can develop of turnkey features |
|

#### Scope

| Focus                                                       | Functional Specification                                              | Content Requirements                            |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Which features?                                             | Provide secure authorized platform where users can view bug/issue reports.  | Use a relational SQL database for storing information. |
| What’s on the table?                                        | Provide the user with a secure logged in space for creating their profile.  |  |
|                                                             | present the user with a familiar blog layout for presenting information |  |
|                                                             | Provide a facility for a user to make a payment toward developing a product upgrade  |  |
|                                                             | To provide a facility where other users can comment on a blog entry by another user.  |  |
|                                                             | Provide a likes button for a blog entry so that another user can up-vote an issue/bug   |  |
|                                                             | Provide a statistics dashboard that will present the number of bugs/issues being resolved over time.  |  |
|                                                             |   |  |


#### Structure

| Focus                                                       | Interaction Design                                                     | Information Architecture                       |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| How is the information structured?                          | Where am I? / How did I get here? / What can I do here? / Where can I go?  | Organizational / Navigational schemas (tree / nested list / hub and spoke / dashboard) |
|                                                             | A landing page will host visually appealing and textual information about our products and services.  | Tree Structure |
|                                                             | A login and new user registration button will be available from the navigation bar.  |  |
| How is it logically grouped?                                | A user will be prompted for their username to log in. If one does not exist, they will be prompted to setup a new profile. Their profile name and email address will need to be unique, different from all the other profiles.  | Start/home page |
|                                                             |   |  |
|                                                             |   |  |
|                                                             |   |  |
|                                                             |   |  |

#### Skeleton

| Focus                                                       | Interface Design                                       | Navigational Design  | Information Design  |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|---------------------|
| How will the information be represented?                    | See wireframes |  | Title and informational typescripts |
| How will the user navigate to the information and features? | See wireframes | Links from the navbar |  |
|                                                             |  | Selecting add feature to  |  |
|                                                             |  |  |  |
|                                                             |  |  |  |
|                                                             |  |  |  |
|                                                             |  |  |  |

#### Surface

| Focus                                                       | Visual Design                       |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| What will the finished product look like?                   |  |
|                                                             |  |
| What colours, typography and design elements will be used?  |  |

##### Wireframes

#### 3. Application Construction

1. Tools used

   * Written in VSCode
   * The SQL database was created with heroku-postgresql (see database included with repository) and is hosted at amazonaws.com
   * CSS files were created and stored locally within the application as static files.  These static files were then added to the s3 bucket on Amazon
   * The app as tested using Chrome dev tools & VSCode debugger
   * HTML and CSS checked with help from the Mark-up Validation Service
   * Version management and test branches created in git
   * Web deployment is hosted on Heroku

2. Reference Literature

   * [django Framework Documentation](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
   * [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
   * [django-bootstrap4](https://readthedocs.org/projects/django-bootstrap4/)
   * [Django Girls Tutorial: Extensions](https://tutorial-extensions.djangogirls.org/en/)
   * [Amazon AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/)
   * [Deploying with Git \| Heroku Dev Centre](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/git)

3. Code Development
4. Deployment Instructions

#### 4. SQLite3 / PostgreSQL Database Schema

#### 5. Development & Testing

### Debugging Strategy

### _The issues found_

### _The fixes implemented_

#### 6. Credits

### by Duncan Falconer for the Code Institute, 2019

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ddeveloper72/milestone-5-project.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ddeveloper72/milestone-5-project)

Commit message:

Updated readme with heroku deployment instructions WIP

README.md, after:

# Milestone 5 Project

## [Custom Drone Systems](https://ddeveloper72-custom-drone.herokuapp.com/)
*for customizing your drone's navigation systems*

![Index](https://github.com/ddeveloper72/milestone-5-project/blob/master/static/readme/landing_page.png "Django Landing Page")

## 1. Project Goals

Custom Drone deBug is a fictitious organization that specialize in developing high-tech drone navigation systems.  The navigation systems of our imaginary drones can be programmed and customized to suit our customer's needs.  The drones are used for a variety different industry purposes, such as search and rescue and inspection.  

Customers of Custom Drone, use standard PC based systems to network to their drones by different means.  They are able to communicate by Satellite, 4G, and low frequency radio.  The various Drone models may be tasked to work in a variety of different environments, such as above ground, below ground in cave/tunnel systems and in aquatic environments.  Custom Drone navigation systems facilitate swarm management, establishing satellite peer to per communication in difficult communications environments.

This service provides a facility were customers can report a problem with a drone navigation system.  Problems or bugs can be logged through the Custom Drone deBug portal.  Bugs that have been found in the software will be fixed free of charge and rolled out to all users of that make and model of the affected products as an opt-in upgrade.

Our drone navigation systems are also customizable.  If a new feature is suggested by a customer, the feature can be logged as a New Feature Request.  Our product development team will do their best to build this new feature into the next product model, so making it available to everyone buying that model.  

If however the new feature is required immediately, our development team will be very happy to focus on developing the New Product Feature.  New product upgrades are considered to be on demand will be charged  development fee dependant on the amount of time required to process the upgrade.  The development fee covers a Coding Feasibility Assessment, Coding Development, System Testing and Simulation, Quality Assessment and finally Product dispatch.

Customers will be able to upvote a bug report made by another customer, should they have the same issue. If there are many upvotes for a particular bug, the product development team will use this statistical data to do as a risk assessment and reassign development time to resolving the bug.

The statistical information will be collected and presented to the customers to show the time line spent on bug resolution and update roll-out.

## 2. The UX Design
*(This template is with thanks from 
@sarahloh)*

#### Strategy

| Focus                                                       | User Needs                                                            | Business Objectives                             |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| What are you aiming to achieve?                             | To be provided with a facility for reporting a bug/issue, prolonging their use of the product.  | To gather user feedback for continues product improvement. To engage with the customer that will maintain and grow our customer base.|
|                                                             | To be able to see if other users have the same issues.  | Gather statistics from likes from user feedback for product development and marketing. |
|                                                             | To be be part of a community and help improve the product development. | To provide customers with a facility to input their feedback on our products. |
| For whom?                                                   | Organizations that use our "SMART" drone navigation system.  |  |
| TARGET AUDIENCE                                             | Drone Tech Pilots  | To learn and understand the technical needs of the customer, by providing a facility where customers can write feedback in a familiar blog style interface |
|                                                             | Company purchasing authority |  |
|                                                             | Customer development authority | Collaborate on needs so we can develop of turnkey features |
|

#### Scope

| Focus                                                       | Functional Specification                                              | Content Requirements                            |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Which features?                                             | Provide secure authorized platform where users can view bug/issue reports.  | Use a relational SQL database for storing information. |
| What’s on the table?                                        | Provide the user with a secure logged in space for creating their profile.  |  |
|                                                             | present the user with a familiar blog layout for presenting information |  |
|                                                             | Provide a facility for a user to make a payment toward developing a product upgrade  |  |
|                                                             | To provide a facility where other users can comment on a blog entry by another user.  |  |
|                                                             | Provide a likes button for a blog entry so that another user can up-vote an issue/bug   |  |
|                                                             | Provide a statistics dashboard that will present the number of bugs/issues being resolved over time.  |  |
|                                                             |   |  |


#### Structure

| Focus                                                       | Interaction Design                                                     | Information Architecture                       |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| How is the information structured?                          | Where am I? / How did I get here? / What can I do here? / Where can I go?  | Organizational / Navigational schemas (tree / nested list / hub and spoke / dashboard) |
|                                                             | A landing page will host visually appealing and textual information about our products and services.  | Tree Structure |
|                                                             | A login and new user registration button will be available from the navigation bar.  |  |
| How is it logically grouped?                                | A user will be prompted for their username to log in. If one does not exist, they will be prompted to setup a new profile. Their profile name and email address will need to be unique, different from all the other profiles.  | Start/home page |
|                                                             |   |  |
|                                                             |   |  |
|                                                             |   |  |
|                                                             |   |  |

#### Skeleton

| Focus                                                       | Interface Design                                       | Navigational Design  | Information Design  |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|---------------------|
| How will the information be represented?                    | See wireframes |  | Title and informational typescripts |
| How will the user navigate to the information and features? | See wireframes | Links from the navbar |  |
|                                                             |  | Selecting add feature to  |  |
|                                                             |  |  |  |
|                                                             |  |  |  |
|                                                             |  |  |  |
|                                                             |  |  |  |

#### Surface

| Focus                                                       | Visual Design                       |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| What will the finished product look like?                   |  |
|                                                             |  |
| What colours, typography and design elements will be used?  |  |

##### Wireframes

#### 3. Application Construction

1. Tools used

   * Written in VSCode
   * The SQL database was created with heroku-postgresql (see database included with repository) and is hosted at amazonaws.com
   * CSS files were created and stored locally within the application as static files.  These static files were then added to the s3 bucket on Amazon
   * The app as tested using Chrome dev tools & VSCode debugger
   * HTML and CSS checked with help from the Mark-up Validation Service
   * Version management and test branches created in git
   * Web deployment is hosted on Heroku

2. Reference Literature

   * [django Framework Documentation](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
   * [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
   * [django-bootstrap4](https://readthedocs.org/projects/django-bootstrap4/)
   * [Django Girls Tutorial: Extensions](https://tutorial-extensions.djangogirls.org/en/)
   * [Amazon AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/)
   * [Deploying with Git \| Heroku Dev Centre](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/git)

3. Code Development
4. Deployment Instructions

    1. Instructions for deployment to a hosing site: [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/)

    In Heroku - Part 1

    1. Log into Heroku
    2. Select New and Create new App.
    3. Create a App name, select the region.
        - then Create app.    
    4. Select Resources tab, search for add-on
        - Add Heroku Postgres SQL database, choosing the free hobby plan.
    5. Select the Settings tab, then select Reveal Config Vars
        - Verify the new `DATABASE_URL` and value is there for the Postgres database.
        - Copy and paste the key, value into the workspace settings in VSCode used for environmental settings.
        - Add a new `SECRET_KEY` key, value pair from your VSCode environmental settings to the heroku Confic Vars

    In VSCode - Part 2


    1. From the command pallet, select Developer: Reload Window to reload the project workspace settings
    2. In the command line, start the virtual environment for the project.
    3. Test connection to the new Postgres database by noting the instructions from the command line.
        - Connecting to the local SQLite database should not occur.
        - There will be an instruction to run python manage.py migrate
        - A new superuser will be required for the new Postgres database, run python manage.py creatsuperuser and fill in the required superuser details.

#### 4. SQLite3 / PostgreSQL Database Schema

#### 5. Development & Testing

### Debugging Strategy

### _The issues found_

### _The fixes implemented_

#### 6. Credits

### by Duncan Falconer for the Code Institute, 2019

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ddeveloper72/milestone-5-project.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ddeveloper72/milestone-5-project)
